So now that we were all set up with Android studio we're going to start editing our app.
And then this year we're going to be focusing initially on text views text view is what we use to display
text in our app and as such it's a pretty fundamental user interface or UI element of view.
By the way is the word used to describe pretty much anything that we put on the screen so checkbooks
toggle buttons spin or any of these things would be views.
And that works the same with iOS development as well.
So if we tap on Hello world.
And by the way you'll need to be editing activity underscore main Torex M-L to be able to do that.
We can zoom in a little and you can see on the right here we've got some margins and some other settings
for the text view.
So the most obvious of those is the actual text content itself.
So I can edit it right there.
Let's say I want to change this to Hello Rob and you can say it updates right there on the app.
Back on it.
And if we run our app and choose the same device that we created a couple of years ago you'll see that
straight away the content of the text view has updated on the abit self underneath that we've got this
new for Android Studio 3 option with a spanner next to the text and you can see what this is for if
you lose control space to get a list of options.
And essentially we can either choose a type of text so we've got examples cities avatars days of the
week etc. etc..
Or we can choose specific strings or icons to display and there's a lot to choose from there.
So if I choose say the copy string then in English that would be displayed as copy but we could change
the language of that very easily and it would update automatically to whatever copy is in the language
that our user is using so that can be very useful for certain types of text.
But we'll go back to hello Rob for now.
Then we can add a description if we want to our content.
I'm going to leave that blank.
We can change the appearance so we can choose from a range of the different kind of standard styles
within Android.
Just put one on that a go which have certain sizes and whites and colors etc..
Again the advantage of using those is because our Android knows what sort of text that is.
It will update and it will look nice regardless of the device that the user is on.
So I'd recommend using the default ones when you can.
But if you really want to customize you can choose from a range of font families install your own phones
as you find out how to do later on in the course.
And you can edit all of these can feel free to play around with font sizes line spacing to make any
difference because we've only got a single line then we can change colors.
And again we get a range of standard colors.
But if you want a very specific color and hover over the three dots until you get the button appearing
and then click you can take a couple of seconds to come up.
So be patient.
And again you can choose from all the standard colors or you can select
from a range of different colors or once you've got a color you can edit it.
To display however you like.
So let's leave that as red as we go.
And you know just I've updated the primary dark color that so wherever I use that color it will now
be red bold italic.
And caps and alignment here which won't make any difference because we've chosen a layout with which
is rap content.
Can't quite see the wrap there.
In fact as I was a bit more room
that week so we can see the options.
But if we change the width to match constraint for example that will then stretch out the text field
to the whole width of the screen and then if we were to align the right for example or center that would
make a difference.
And next we've got a whole range of attributes.
So could a diva one of visibility that where we can
make our text be invisible if we like.
I'll keep it as visible for now and then we can view all attributes.
And there's just a massive range of attributes that we can edit if we want to.
I'm going to just pick out a few that will be useful not only for text fields but also images.
Any other type of content that you want to display within your app.
So as with lú with we change that we can change the height as well.
So if we want to make it full height we can do that.
We can add constraints.
So linking it to different parts of the screen so at the moment the bottom is matched to the bottom
of the parent the parent in this case being the constraint lay out or the frame around the main content
area of the screen.
The left is linked to the left of that the right to the right of that etc. but you can change those
to customize the layout in many different ways.
We're going to look at that in more detail later in the course but feel free to play around with it
for now if you like.
We can add margins so let's quickly put a margin in.
Again we can choose differe ones.
So let's go for that.
So now we've got a 64 DP margin.
DP is short for density independent pixel.
And this is a quite clever unit which automatically adjusts for the pixel density of a device which
of course varies a lot from one Android device to another if you want to know more about how they work.
Just Google Android.
DP and you'll get a nice clear guide of exactly how they work.
But for now you can just work with them as if they are pixels.
So that's our margin.
Our padding we can type in a specific padding if we want lots of other options there.
I'm not going to go through all of them now or you'd go mad but I will show you the alpha option.
Alpha is a number between 0 and 1 that decides how opaque the text view is.
So if we go for say no point five then you can say it becomes slightly faded.
No one is very faded and 0 is essentially invisible.
So that would be really nice when you're layering some text on top of an image.
For example you can find that text out so that the image can still be seen through it and it's a really
nice effect.
Maybe using it a lot in the course as well.
Another option that's worth being aware of is gravity scrolling down to gravity there and that just
allows you to play with how the content of the text view floats around its container.
So for example we can move it to the bottom turning it from left to right doesn't actually make any
difference because it's centered.
But if the text was free flowing that would then move to the left or the right.
So gravity can be a really useful way to lay out your UI elements.
And then again if you want to stop and look at some of these You're very welcome to do so.
But I'm just going to bring your attention back to the text options which we looked at earlier.
So we can change all of those there if we want.
And just one more to show you at the beginning but scrolling back up to the top is background
and just like with whatever colors we can choose from a range of colors or edit our own color to act
as the background for our text view.
All right.
So that was really useful and clear there's obviously a huge amount that you can edit there but we've
just gone through the basics for now.
If you want to return back to the Future Attribute view you can do that at the bottom at the bottom.
But for now I'm just going to give you a little challenge.
You'll find out do that a lot throughout all my courses.
It's really important not just to sit and watch but to actually put this stuff that I'm teaching you
into practice and at the end of almost every video there will be a little challenge for you to do exactly
that.
So you can say I just deleted that text for you then we're going to bring in a new text.
And notice we've got range of different types of text views as well.
If you want to use them for specific types of data I'm going to drag in the text view and you can see
as we move it around these lines appear which just give you guides as to the layout.
So we'll have a centered text VI and there we go.
Notice that we've got an error there.
And that's because this view isn't constrained.
Remember the view is the text view itself and it's just floating around there we haven't decided exactly
how it should be fixed on the screen.
So one way to do that is to add in margins which we can do by plus plus plus and plus and the text for
you is now constrained by those margins.
So now I've shown you that let's get rid of this and give you your challenge which is to create this
text view.
So we want to align centrally and towards the top of the layout.
It should say migrate app in green and bold and pretty large font and with a lovely orange background
there.
So it doesn't necessarily look beautiful but it will test that you know to edit and customize text.
All right.
So I'll leave that there for you as a guide.
Time to pause the video and recreate the migrate app text view.
Go for it.
OK.
Here we go.
I hope you manage to do that.
But I'm just going to show you how I would have solved that.
So I will start by dragging in the text view towards the top.
And before I had the margins I'm going to have the content that I want for the text.
So we'll change the text to
migrate app and then we want to make it
30 s.p.
So I noticed that the text size is given in espies rather than the.
And espie is a scale independent pixel which is essentially the same as a DP but if the user decides
that they want all of their text on their Android device to be a little bit bigger or smaller for whatever
reason they s.p will be affected by that.
So generally you should use DP for design in general but espies for text size so that PSP looks about
right to me.
And we can add bold
and we'll change the text color to Dogberry every day.
And I'm going to bring it back so centered.
And finally I'm going to change the background
to
lovely light orange fantastic.
Know the most beautiful title text for your app but it shows that we know what we're doing when it comes
to changing the color and background size and font weight of our text V.
So now that we've got it.
Let's just get rid of all the attributes and I'm going to add in those margins.
So it should display at the top and center of my device.
Let's just click play to make sure.
And there we go.
It's displaying where we want it.
It is always worth running your app to make sure particularly in terms of layout that it displays how
you want.
Just because it looks right on the layout guide here doesn't necessarily mean that it will look good
on the screen.
Excellent.
So now that we've learned how to customize and work with text views we're going to start making interactive
apps and we'll do that by learning how to add buttons to our apps and writing a little bit of code to
make those buttons interactive.